=encoding utf8

=head1 NAME

virt-similarity - Find clusters of similar/cloned virtual machines

=head1 SYNOPSIS

 virt-similarity disk1 disk2 [disk3 ...]

=head1 DESCRIPTION

Virt-similarity is a tool for doing cluster analysis of groups of
virtual machines.  It can automatically detect machines which have
been cloned from each other.  It can produce a "cladogram" showing the
"family history" of each guest, or you can use it to create the most
efficient tree of backing files which will use the least disk space.

Basic usage is simply to run virt-similarity with a list of disk
images.  It will read and analyze the disk images, then print a
cladogram showing how they are related:

 $ virt-similarity winxp-copy.img winxp-copy2.img \
     f19rawhidex32.img f19rawhidex64.img archlinux20121201x64.img \
     winxp.img winxp-copy2b.img
 
 ---+------+------+------+------+------ winxp-copy2.img
    |      |      |      |      |   
    |      |      |      |      +------ winxp-copy2b.img
    |      |      |      |          
    |      |      |      +------+------ winxp.img
    |      |      |             |   
    |      |      |             +------ winxp-copy.img
    |      |      |                 
    |      |      +------ f19rawhidex64.img
    |      |          
    |      +------ f19rawhidex32.img
    |          
    +------ archlinux20121201x64.img

The first time you run virt-similarity, it has to read the disk images
which takes some time.  On subsequent runs, the information from each
disk image is cached in a special form in a hidden file in your home
directory called C<~/.similarity-cache.v1>.  You can simply delete
this cache file at any time if you want, especially if you want to
force virt-similarity to re-read the disk images.

=head1 FILES

=over 4

=item C<~/.similarity-cache.v1>

The cache file where virt-similarity saves information about each disk
image so that it doesn't have to re-read them each time it is run.
You can delete this file at any time.

=back

=head1 ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES

Virt-similarity uses libguestfs, and is affected by various libguestfs
environment variables.  See L<guestfs(3)/ENVIRONMENT VARIABLES>.

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<guestfs(3)>, L<http://virt-tools.org/>

=head1 AUTHOR

Richard W.M. Jones L<http://people.redhat.com/~rjones/>

=head1 COPYRIGHT

Copyright (C) 2013 Red Hat Inc.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA.
